# The TESC proof format & toolchain for first-order ATPs

Theory Extensible Sequent Calculus (TESC) is a low-level 
proof format for first-order ATPs. 

The TPTP-TSTP Compiler (TTC) accepts a TPTP problem and its TSTP solution 
as input and constructs a corresponding TESC proof. The current version of 
TTC can compile TSTP solutions in first-order logic with equality generated 
by E 2.4 Sandakphu (1fa8840d748f8781007680abbfdab27e96fa5648) and
Vampire 4.4.0 (commit d98a3d53 on 2020-01-14 21:02:12 +0100). 

The TPTP-TESC Verifier (TTV) accepts a TPTP problem and a TESC proof as 
input and verifies that the latter is a correct proof of the former.

## Installation & Usage 

TTC and TTV can be compiled using `make`. To enable loading of axiom files, modify the `tptp_directory/1` predicate in `basic.pl` to match the TPTP directory on your system. 

[SWI-Prolog](https://www.swi-prolog.org/) is required for compilation of TTC and TTV.
TTC also requires `cadical` (https://github.com/arminbiere/cadical) and `drat-trim`
(https://github.com/marijnheule/drat-trim) to be available on your path to correctly 
compile TSTP solutions generated by Vampire. 

Installation and usage was only tested on Linux.

`./ttc [PROVER] [PROBLEM] [SOLUTION] [PROOF]` uses a TPTP problem `[PROBLEM]` 
and a TSTP solution `[SOLUTION]` to compile a new TESC proof `[PROOF]`, where 
`[PROVER]` is the ATP that generated `[SOLUTION]`. The currently supported 
options for `[PROVER]` are `e` and `vampire`.

`./ttv [PROBLEM] [PROOF]` verifies that the TESC proof `[PROOF]` is a 
correct proof of the TPTP problem `[PROBLEM]`. 

